Speaker 1: File Characteristics
Speaker 1: augment employs explicitly structured files, with hierarchically organized nodes; each node can contain either or all of: up to two thousand characters of text, a graphic structure, or other forms of useful data (for example, digitized speech). The worker has a definite model in mind for the structuring of any file that he works with; in composing and modifying it he can organize and modify structure using the same verbs as for working with text strings (for example Insert, Replace, moove, Copy, deeleet), with appropriate structural entity nouns (for example, Statement, Branch, Group, Plex). For any existing hierarchical structure, he has many flexible alternatives for addressing its entities, modifying its organization, jumping around within it, and viewing it in a most beneficial manner.
Speaker 1: (Note: augment workers generally use the term "statement" to refer to a file node, which is natural enough since the terminology became established before we added the graphic capability. Now an augment "statement" can contain either or both a text statement and a graphic diagram.)
Speaker 1: Controlling the Tools
Speaker 1: Many of augment's unique author support provisions address basic operations common to almost every task, things done over and over again. These operations, executed with speed and flexibility, provide for composing and modifying one's working material, and for studying what is there over a wide range of substantive levels , from a single text passage to a collection of end product draft documents and their associated set of working notes, reference material, and recorded message dialog (assuming all to be on line).
Speaker 1: In the early stages of our program at S R I, we did a great deal of detailed work on what we called the "control interface" , how users control the functional application of their tools. These details can be very important to "low level" interactions which are done hundreds of times during a working day. Some of these details are quite relevant to bringing high performance to the authorship process.
