Speaker 1: Furthermore, this second reader could develop and submit his own recorded commentary, which because of the citation power of augment links could be as short and to the point as: "Frankly, John, I think your comment in (D D D,xxx,aa) is a mistake! Didn't you notice the earlier assumption in (D D D,xxx,bb)? Maybe you should go back to Tom's earlier requirements document , especially at (E E E,yy,cc)." (Here, "D D D" and "E E E" represent Journal names, "xxx", "yyy", and "zzz" represent Journal item numbers, and "aa", "bb", and "cc" represent addresses pointing to specific passages in those Journal files.)
Speaker 1: In official parlance, "retrieval" is the finding out about the existence of a relevant piece of information, whereas "access" is the subsequent process of gaining possession of the information. For users of augment's Journal system, retrieval is immensely facilitated by the widespread use of citation links. When one can follow them as easily as can a practiced augment worker, these links provide extremely effective retrieval support. We have supplemented this with some simple, automatically generated catalog files, which made a rather nice balance. Access is provided by direct Jump on a reference link if the file is on line; if it isn't, augment asks the worker if she wants it retrieved, and a simple affirmative response automatically launches a request for the system operator to retrieve the file from its archive tape, after which the worker is notified of its availability via electronic mail.
Speaker 1: A private document can be submitted into a Journal. In this case, only those workers listed at Journal entry time can get access to the central copy. Such a private item would not be listed or indexed in the "public" catalogs.
Speaker 1: We have used the Journal system very heavily since 1970 to support augment's development activity; many customers have employed it heavily since 1975. There are about one hundred thousand entries recorded in the original Journal now (I don't know about other, newer augment Journal collections). We found that as workers became at home in this environment, they were increasingly free about submitting their items to the "public." It became evident that the scientific tradition of active and open interchange has some solid relevance to the collaborative processes in our smaller, "colleague communities." Time and again a worker would come across others' dialog and be able to contribute some valuable information (sometimes a one sentence comment with a critical citation link). Often the payoff went the other way: the new party found immediate value in an old piece of recorded dialog.
