Speaker 1: Controlling the Views
Speaker 1: A user of a book, or of most on line text systems, is constrained to viewing the text as though he had a window through which he sees a fixed, formatted document. But as described below, our worker can view a section of text in many ways, depending upon his need of the moment.
Speaker 1: Multiple Windows
Speaker 1: For whatever total screen area is available to the worker, his general performance will be improved significantly if he can flexibly allocate that area into arbitrary sized windows whose contents can be independently controlled. augment has long provided this basic capability, along with the provision that material from any accessible file may be shown in any window, and also that screen select copying or moving can be done across the different windows.
Speaker 1: (Note: Cross file editing can be done at any time, between any two legally accessible files. If one or the other file's material or destination is not being displayed in any of the windows, one may always opt to employ a textual address expression instead of a <Select> within any editing command.)
Speaker 1: User adjustable parameters are used to control the view presented on the display. Adjusting one's view parameters is a constantly used augment feature that has solidly proved its value. To facilitate their quick and flexible use, the view specification actions evolved into cryptic, single character codes, called "viewspecs." The syntax of all Jump commands (used for traveling) includes the option of designating new viewspecs, and a special combination of mouse buttons enables quick, concurrent, keyset action to change the viewspecs for a given window. Here are a few of the frequently used view controls:
Speaker 1: Window Views
Speaker 1: Structure Cutoff. Show only the statements that lie "below" this statement in the structure (that is, this "branch"); or show only those following statements that are at this level or deeper; or show all of the following statements that will fit in this window.
