Speaker 1: (Note: I just had myself timed for this above operation , an unhurried 2.5 seconds.)
Speaker 1: In our view, interactive computer support offers an author a priceless opportunity to get away from the geometric bondage inflicted by pages, margins, and lines , things which have very little if any bearing upon the content and organization of one's text. In terms of value to the authoring process, we differ sharply from those who advocate a "What you see is what you get" working mode during the development of a document's content and organization. For this kind of work, experienced users of the foregoing kind of flexible facility for addressing, viewing, and manipulating structured documents, would consider a "What you see ..." mode as a relative handicap.
Speaker 1: Supporting Multi Party Collaboration
Speaker 1: The support that advanced technology can provide for close collaboration among knowledge workers is a very important and much under rated possibility. For multiple author activities, collaborative support is an important aspect of system capability. Some years ago, we introduced the following provisions into augment. (A more complete, overview treatment of these is given in Ref 8.)
Speaker 1: Electronic Mail. Its primary attributes of speed, automatic distribution, and computer to computer directness are well recognized , and are generally accepted now as important to the effectiveness of knowledge workers. augment Mail has features that are beyond what most electronic mail systems offer, and which provide unique benefit to the authorship process.
Speaker 1: augment's mail system allows one to "send" complete, structured documents as well as small messages. In an authorship environment, an important role for "electronic mail" is for the control and distribution of documents , where small, throw away messages are considered to be but a special class of document. An author should be able to bundle up any combination of text and graphics, in the forms that he has been using for studying and manipulating them , and send the bundle to other workers. In augment, such a bundle is just like any other file structure, and can be studied and manipulated, incorporated into other files (documents), saved or deleted.
