Speaker 1: Level Clipping. For the designated structure cutoff, show only the statements down to a specified level. Lower level statements are "clipped" from the view; the worker can thus view just a selected number of the upper levels of his document/file.
Speaker 1: Statement Truncation. For those statements brought into view (as selected by other view specifications), show only their first n lines. Truncation to one line is often used, along with level clipping, in order to get an effective overview.
Speaker 1: Inter Statement Separation. For viewing ease , blank lines can be optionally installed between statements.
Speaker 1: (Note: The foregoing view controls are extremely helpful when studying and modifying a document's structural organization.)
Speaker 1: Statement Numbers and Names. Optionally, for a given window, show the Statement Number (or the S I D) of each statement , with an option for showing them at either the right or at the left margin. Independently, the showing of statement names may be turned on or off.
Speaker 1: Frozen Statements. A worker may select a number of statements, in random order, and designate them as "frozen." One of the view specification options is to have the frozen statements appear at the top of the frame, with the rest of that window left for normal viewing and editing. The frozen statements may be edited, or even cross edited between any other displayed (or addressable) statements.
Speaker 1: User Specified Content Filters. A simple content analysis language may be used in a "Set Content Pattern" command, which compiles a little content checking program. One of the view specification options will cause the system to display only those statements which satisfy both the structure and level conditions imposed by other viewspecs, and which also pass the content analysis test applied by this program. Where desired, very sophisticated content analysis programs may be written, using a full blown programming language, and placed on call for any user.
Speaker 1: User Specified Sequence Generators
