Speaker 1: Traveling from one view point to another is accomplished by Jump commands, of which the simplest perhaps is a direct Jump to a statement designated by a screen selection. Then, for a worker grown used to employing address strings, a next form would be a Jump on an embedded link, or to a statement designated by a typed in address string    using any combination of the addressing elements and viewspecs described above. For example, the link "4 b colon M I" points to the Statement 4 b, while invoking viewspecs "m" and "I" which cause the statements' SIDs to be displayed. The link "Ref 1 point L colon I semi colon L L" points to the document referenced by the link in the statement named "Ref 1", invoking viewspec "i" for user content filtering, and sets the filter to "L L" to show only those statements beginning with a lower case letter. The applications are effectively endless.
Speaker 1: Modifying the Document Structures
Speaker 1: Given the array of capabilities described above, it is very simple also to provide for very flexible manipulation of the file structure. For operating on a small, basic set of structure entity nouns, essentially the same basic verbs may be used as for text manipulation    that is Insert, deeleet, moove, Copy, Replace, and Transpose are quite sufficient for most cases. For instance, "moove Branch 2 b to follow 3 c" immediately moves Statement 2 b and all of its substatements to follow Statement 3 c    and their statement numbers are automatically changed from 2 b, 2 b 1, et cetera., to 3 d, 3 d 1, et cetera.
Speaker 1: A few extra verbs are useful for structure manipulation. For instance, a "Break" command will break a given statement off at a designated point in its text string, and establish the rest of the text as a new, separate statement. And an "Append" command does the reverse    that is, it appends the text of one or more existing statements to the end of a designated statement.
Speaker 1: Concurrent use of mouse and keyset also provide considerable gains in speed and flexibility for studying and modifying document structure. For example, if when studying the overview described in the previous paragraph, the author perceives that Statement 2 b really belongs in Section 3, following Statement 3 c, he can execute the necessary moove command in a very quick, deft manner:
Speaker 1: Keyset hand strikes "m" and "b" for moove Branch, while the mouse hand is positioning the cursor anywhere in the text line of Statement 2 b. Two chord strokes.
