Speaker 1: As an example, note that "Ref 1" is a link to the statement named "Ref 1", a bibliographic citation at the end of this paper. In that citation, there is a link to the original source document of the referenced publication, permanently stored in the augment Journal as Item 71279 the Journal is described below. The point to be made here is that with the link "Ref 1 point L", I can reference the original source document    and a Jump Link command would "take me there." Text and Content Addressing Other addressing options include scanning for a content match, and/or stepping backward and forward a given number of characters or words or other text entities. For instance, the foregoing link could have involved a bit more smarts in designating which link to follow: for example, the path for '4 b "*D" .l' would be "to 4 b, scan for first occurrence of "*D", then follow the next link found in that statement." Other File Addressing By preceding an in file address string with a file address, and separating the two strings with a comma, one obtains a composite address designating a given entity within a given file. Extending this principle lets one prefix the file name with a directory name in which the file is to be found; and further, one can prefix this with a host computer name.
Speaker 1: For example, 'Office 5, Program Documentation, Sequence Doc, Specifications "Journal"' specifies the path: to the Office 5 host computer, to its Program Documentation file directory, to its Sequence Doc file, to its statement named "Specifications", and then scan to the location of the text "Journal".
Speaker 1: If a person were working on the Office 5 host, he would only have to specify 'Program Documentation, Sequence Doc, Specifications "Journal"'. If he were already working within a file with its "link default" set to the Program Documentation directory, he would only have to specify 'Sequence Doc, Specifications "Journal"'. And if he were already working within the Sequence Doc file, he would only have to specify 'Specifications "Journal"'. And if he were planning to reference items relative to the Statement named "Specifications" very often, he could affix a marker for example, named "s" to its front and would then only have to specify '#s "Journal"'.
