Speaker 1: Recorded Mail    augment's Journal System. When mailing a document, an augment worker may optionally specify that it be installed as a "recorded" item. In this case, before distributing the item, the system will make a permanent record if it, as a file in a specified Journal collection. And, just as though it had been published, this recorded Journal item cannot later be changed. The system assigns a straightforward accession identifier a simple number, and any authorized worker is henceforth guaranteed access to that Journal item by specifying the name of the Journal collection and the Journal item number    for example, as specified in the link "O A D comma 2 2 3 7 comma".
Speaker 1: A given journal may be set up to serve multiple hosts and is much like a special library. It has its collection of documents, and augment provides associated support processes for entry, cataloging, retrieval, and access.
Speaker 1: Together with the linking capability described above, a Journal system provides an extremely effective form of "recorded dialog." Cross reference links between a succession of Journal items produces an inter linked network of collaborative contributions    plans, outlines, document drafts, schedules, short comments, detailed critiques, reference material, et cetera. The on line worker can follow these links very easily and, using multiple windows and flexible viewing options, can make very effective use of such records.
Speaker 1: For instance, consider a detailed commentary directed toward a "preliminary design" document recorded in a given Journal collection. The author writing the commentary could view the design document in one window and his developing commentary document in another. He can easily establish links in his commentary to cite any passage in the design document    for example, a statement, a term in the statement, or a diagram. Then this author would submit his commentary into the Journal, perhaps specifying a list of colleagues for "distribution." Each listed user would automatically receive a mail item announcing this new Journal entry, giving subject, author, date, et cetera., and the all important link to the new Journal file containing the commentary. Any such recipient can subsequently study both the commentary and its cited planning document in a similar, multi window, link assisted manner.
