Speaker 1: Note: It is optional whether to have any of the above three identifiers displayed or printed with the statements' text. A Direct Screen Selection. When a statement to be designated is displayed in a window, usually the best way to address it is to use the mouse to position the cursor anywhere on the statement and depress the mouse's Select key indicated below by Select. This mode is generally used for text manipulation    selecting characters, words, numbers, visibles, invisibles, et cetera. any of the text entities which have been made system recognizable.
Speaker 1: Markers As one holds a place in a book by leaving a temporary place marker in it, an author can place markers at arbitrary locations within an augment file. When placing a marker, he attaches it to a specific character in the text and gives it a name or label. Marker names are local to each file. Simple commands provide for displaying where one's markers are located and what their names are, for deleting or moving a marker, or for installing a new one.
Speaker 1: A marker name may be included in an address expression, to provide another way of designating an address. A marker name can designate not only a particular statement, but a specific character within that statement. For example, "Copy Word marker X to follow word Select" would designate that a word located somewhere in the file and marked with an x is to be copied to follow the cursor selected word. There are many unique ways in which markers may be employed by an author who has integrated their artful use into her working methodology.
Speaker 1: As a comparative example of some of the foregoing addressing forms, consider a statement whose S I D is zero six nine, whose statement number is 3 b 5, that has statement name delimiters designated for it as null and colon, that starts with the text Capacity: For every .
 and that has a marker named x positioned on one of its characters. A command to moove this statement could optionally be expressed as:
Speaker 2: moove Statement Select .

Speaker 2: moove Statement 3 b 5 .

Speaker 2: moove Statement zero six nine .

Speaker 2: moove Statement Capacity .
 or
Speaker 2: moove Statement marker X 
.
