Speaker 1: Note: Cross file editing can be done at any time, between any two legally accessible files. If one or the other file's material or destination is not being displayed in any of the windows, one may always opt to employ a textual address expression instead of a Select within any editing command. User adjustable parameters are used to control the view presented on the display. Adjusting one's view parameters is a constantly used augment feature that has solidly proved its value. To facilitate their quick and flexible use, the view specification actions evolved into cryptic, single character codes, called "viewspecs." The syntax of all Jump commands used for traveling includes the option of designating new viewspecs, and a special combination of mouse buttons enables quick, concurrent, keyset action to change the viewspecs for a given window. Here are a few of the frequently used view controls: Window Views Structure Cutoff. Show only the statements that lie "below" this statement in the structure that is, this "branch"; or show only those following statements that are at this level or deeper; or show all of the following statements that will fit in this window.
Speaker 1: Level Clipping. For the designated structure cutoff, show only the statements down to a specified level. Lower level statements are "clipped" from the view; the worker can thus view just a selected number of the upper levels of his document/file.
Speaker 1: Statement Truncation. For those statements brought into view as selected by other view specifications, show only their first n lines. Truncation to one line is often used, along with level clipping, in order to get an effective overview.
Speaker 1: Inter Statement Separation. For viewing ease    blank lines can be optionally installed between statements.
Speaker 1: Note: The foregoing view controls are extremely helpful when studying and modifying a document's structural organization. Statement Numbers and Names. Optionally, for a given window, show the Statement Number or the S I D of each statement    with an option for showing them at either the right or at the left margin. Independently, the showing of statement names may be turned on or off.
