Speaker 1: Relative Address Extensions A sequence of characters may be appended to the address of a given statement to specify an address of a position relative to that statement. A major class of these designations deals with relative structural location, such as: Up a level, Down a level, Successor at same level, Predecessor at same level, Head at this level, Tail at this level, and End statement at last and lowest position in this branch. A period . in the address string indicates that relative addressing is beginning, and each of these relative location designators is indicated with a directly mnemonic, one letter designation.
Speaker 1: For example, "moove Statement zero six zero nine to follow statement 4 b dot dt" would moove Statement zero six zero nine to follow the tail statement of the substructure one level down from Statement 4 b    or, to conceptualize the associated address location pathway, "go to 4 b, then Down a level and to the Tail".
Speaker 1: Embedded Citation Links A special use of address expressions is within an explicit text entity that we call a Citation Link or Link for short. Links are used as textual citations to some specific file item within the workshop domain. A link is delimited by parentheses or angle brackets and contains a valid address string whose path leads to the cited file entity. For example, zero three zero six or 4 b dot dt are valid links. Also, the reference items at the end of this paper are statements named Ref 1, Ref 2, et cetera., and as such can be cited with links Ref 1, Ref 2, et cetera. An augment reader may travel via such a link directly to the referenced bibliographic citation.
Speaker 1: A special feature in augment's link provisions is the use of indirect link referencing. In path following terms, including .l in an address string stipulates, "scan forward from this point to the next link, and follow that link to its target." For example, to follow the path prescribed by link 4 b dot l, one would "go to 4 b, then find the first link in that statement and follow the path that it specifies." This latter path in turn could prescribe use of another link, et cetera. There is no intrinsic limit to the number of these indirect links that may be employed in a given path    only a natural caution against such a path looping back upon itself.
