Speaker 1: We have used the Journal system very heavily since 1970 to support augment's development activity; many customers have employed it heavily since 1975. There are about one hundred thousand entries recorded in the original Journal now I don't know about other, newer augment Journal collections. We found that as workers became at home in this environment, they were increasingly free about submitting their items to the "public." It became evident that the scientific tradition of active and open interchange has some solid relevance to the collaborative processes in our smaller, "colleague communities." Time and again a worker would come across others' dialog and be able to contribute some valuable information sometimes a one sentence comment with a critical citation link. Often the payoff went the other way: the new party found immediate value in an old piece of recorded dialog.
Speaker 1: Shared Screen Teleconferencing. Consider a case where two people sit down to work together at a terminal, where they can both see the screens, and where either one can take over the controls. This is being done countless times every day throughout the country, in different combinations of expert expert, expert novice, novice coach, et cetera. When talking together on their telephones, two or more distantly separated augment users can collaborate in a manner very similar to this.
Speaker 1: Suppose that two workers, Smith and Jones, want to set up and operate in a Shared Screen Conferencing mode. Smith is in Princeton, working on host Office 4, and Jones is in San Francisco, working on host Office 12    and both of these host computers are connected to the same network. Assumedly they are in telephone contact when they decide to work in this shared screen mode to collaborate on Smith's current job.
Speaker 1: Jones will enter the command "Share display with user smith! On host OF 12! Viewing other display!!"
Speaker 1: Smith will enter the command "Share display with user jones! On host OF 4! Showing this display!!"
Speaker 1: To give these commands, each person only entered the characters shown in upper case entry case actually irrelevant, plus the digits, plus an "O K Key" action where each exclamation point is shown.
