Speaker 1: In this regard, our design goal was to provide as much capability as possible for each level of system usage skill, and a continuous evolution path between skill levels. We believe firmly that knowledge workers are motivated to grow in knowledge and skill and that provisions in system design should support this. As the rest of the paper reveals, this approach translates into a rich set of augment provisions, aimed at providing speed and flexibility for skilled workers in organizing and pursuing their core knowledge work , in which "authorship" is a primary activity.
Speaker 1: An explicit sub goal in augment's development was to "augment" the development, production and control of complex technical documentation , through the whole cycle of gathering information, planning, creating, collaborating, reviewing, editing, controlling versions, designing layout, and producing the final documents.
Speaker 1: This paper concentrates upon the development phase of this cycle. augment has well developed tools to support the later, production phase, but their discussion is not included here.
Speaker 1: Studying another's work provides a well recognized challenge, but one of the toughest jobs is to study one's own work during its development: to see what it really says about Issue X; to see if it does provide for Concept Y; to see if it is reasonably organized and structured , and to do these over a body of material before it is "polished", that is, before it is well structured, coherently worded, non redundant and consistently termed.
Speaker 1: Some Background
Speaker 1: History
Speaker 1: augment is an integrated system of knowledge worker tools that is marketed by Tymshare's Office Automation Division. The system was developed at S R I International over an extended period under the sponsorship of nasa, darpa, and radc. Commercial rights were transferred to timeshare in 1978 (where the system has since been renamed from N L S to augment) and its evolution continued. A short history of augment's development may be found in Ref 1, along with a summary of system characteristics and features. The general R&D philosophy and the design principles behind augment's development are laid out in Ref 2.
