Speaker 1: augment commands are expressed with verbs, nouns, and appropriate qualifier words; every command word is designated by entering one or more characters. The U I S recognizes the command word from these characters according to the command recognition options designated in each individual's "profile file." Users seem to migrate fairly rapidly to "expert" recognition modes, where a minimum number of characters will elicit recognition of command words. The fully spelled out command words are presented in the Command Feedback Window as soon as they are recognized. The Backspace Key will cause backup, one command word at a time.
Speaker 1: Of the system requirements behind our choice of this noun verb command form, two are particularly relevant here: (1) The "vocabulary" of the functions of the tools, and of the entities they operate upon, must be as extensible as is a natural language; (2) Textual lists of commands must conveniently lend themselves to writing, documenting, and executing as "macro" commands.
Speaker 1: Screen selection is done with a mouse. If the command's noun is a single, defined text or structure entity, for example, a "word", then there is only one selection needed (for example, to pick any character in the designated word).
Speaker 1: Besides using a standard keyboard for character entry, an augment user may optionally use a five key, one hand, chord keyset. Remarkably little practice is required in order to enter alphabetic characters, one hand stroke per character. With less than five hours practice, a person can begin profitably working in a two handed, concurrent mode , operating the mouse with one hand and simultaneously entering command characters and short literal strings with the other hand.
Speaker 1: Here is an example of a low level action which reveals some basic characteristics of high performance execution. It is a very simple situation, but representative of what is met over and over and over again in doing hard knowledge work. The worker is composing or modifying something in one area of the screen, when his eye catches a one character typo in another area. For a skilled augment worker, the typo could be corrected in less time than it would take someone to point it out to him , with three quick strokes of the keyset hand during a casual flick of the mouse hand, and an absolute minimum of visual and mental attention taken from the other ongoing task.
