Speaker 1: A special feature in augment's link provisions is the use of "indirect link referencing". In path following terms, including ".l" in an address string stipulates, "scan forward from this point to the next link, and follow that link to its target." For example, to follow the path prescribed by link "(4 b.l)", one would "go to 4 b, then find the first link in that statement and follow the path that it specifies." This latter path in turn could prescribe use of another link, et cetera. There is no intrinsic limit to the number of these indirect links that may be employed in a given path , only a natural caution against such a path looping back upon itself.
Speaker 1: As an example, note that "Ref 1" is a link to the statement named "Ref 1", a bibliographic citation at the end of this paper. In that citation, there is a link to the original source document of the referenced publication, permanently stored in the augment Journal as Item 71279 (the Journal is described below). The point to be made here is that with the link "Ref 1 point L", I can reference the original source document , and a Jump Link command would "take me there."
Speaker 1: Text and Content Addressing
Speaker 1: Other addressing options include scanning for a content match, and/or stepping backward and forward a given number of characters or words (or other text entities). For instance, the foregoing link could have involved a bit more smarts in designating which link to follow: for example, the path for '(4 b "*D" .l)' would be "to 4 b, scan for first occurrence of "*D", then follow the next link found in that statement."
Speaker 1: Other File Addressing
Speaker 1: By preceding an in file address string with a file address, and separating the two strings with a comma, one obtains a composite address designating a given entity within a given file. Extending this principle lets one prefix the file name with a directory name in which the file is to be found; and further, one can prefix this with a host computer name.
