Speaker 1: In the foregoing, a "view" is created by beginning at a designated location in a document (file) and selecting certain of the the "following" statements for display, according to the viewing parameters , possibly suppressing statements that don't pass the test of a content analysis program. This is essentially a "parameterized sequence generator," and provides very useful options for selectively viewing statements within a document; however, it works only by selectively discarding statements from a sequence provided in standard order.
Speaker 1: Application programmers can provide alternate sequence generator programs, which any user can invoke in a straightforward manner. In such a case, the apparent structure being presented to the user could be generated from a sequence of candidate statements according to any rules one may invent , and the actual views could be further controlled by the above described viewspecs for level clipping, truncation, content filtering, et cetera.
Speaker 1: Perhaps the most commonly used, special sequence generator is one that provides an "Include" feature, where specially tagged links embedded in the text will cause their cited passages to be "included" in place of the Include Link statements, as though they were part of this file. This provision enables arbitrary assemblage of text and formatting directives, from a wide collection of files, to represent a virtual, one document, super file. For instance, the whole assemblage could be passed to the formatter, by means of a single user action, to generate a composite, photo typeset document.
Speaker 1: Traveling Through the Working Files
Speaker 1: An important provision in augment enables an author to freely "travel around" in his on line file space to reach a particular "view point" of his choice , that is, the position within a file from which the system develops the desired form of "view" according to the currently invoked view specifications.
Speaker 1: Traveling from one view point to another is accomplished by Jump commands, of which the simplest perhaps is a direct Jump to a statement designated by a screen selection. Then, for a worker grown used to employing address strings, a next form would be a Jump on an embedded link, or to a statement designated by a typed in address string , using any combination of the addressing elements and viewspecs described above. For example, the link "<4 b:mi>" points to the Statement 4 b, while invoking viewspecs "m" and "I" which cause the statements' SIDs to be displayed. The link "Ref 1 point L, view I, filter L L" points to the document referenced by the link in the statement named "Ref 1", invoking viewspec "i" for user content filtering, and sets the filter to "L L" to show only those statements beginning with a lower case letter. The applications are effectively endless.
