Speaker 1: Markers
Speaker 1: As one "holds a place" in a book by leaving a temporary place marker in it, an author can place "markers" at arbitrary locations within an augment file. When placing a marker, he attaches it to a specific character in the text and gives it a name or label. Marker names are local to each file. Simple commands provide for displaying where one's markers are located and what their names are, for deleting or moving a marker, or for installing a new one.
Speaker 1: A marker name may be included in an address expression, to provide another way of designating an address. A marker name can designate not only a particular statement, but a specific character within that statement. For example, "Copy Word #x (to follow word) <Select>" would designate that a word located somewhere in the file and marked with an "x" is to be copied to follow the cursor selected word. There are many unique ways in which markers may be employed by an author who has integrated their artful use into her working methodology.
Speaker 1: As a comparative example of some of the foregoing addressing forms, consider a statement whose S I D is "069", whose statement number is "3 b 5", that has statement name delimiters designated for it as "null" and ":", that starts with the text "Capacity: For every ...", and that has a marker named "x" positioned on one of its characters. A command to moove this statement could optionally be expressed as:
Speaker 1: "moove Statement <Select> ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement 3 b 5 ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement 069 ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement Capacity ...", or
Speaker 1: "moove Statement #x ...".
Speaker 1: Relative Address Extensions
Speaker 1: A sequence of characters may be appended to the address of a given statement to specify an address of a position "relative" to that statement. A major class of these designations deals with relative structural location, such as: Up a level, Down a level, Successor at same level, Predecessor at same level, Head at this level, Tail at this level, and End statement at last and lowest position in this branch. A period (".") in the address string indicates that relative addressing is beginning, and each of these relative location designators is indicated with a directly mnemonic, one letter designation.
Speaker 1: For example, "moove Statement 0609 (to follow statement) 4 b.dt" would moove Statement 0609 to follow the tail statement of the substructure one level down from Statement 4 b    or, to conceptualize the associated address location pathway, "go to 4 b, then Down a level and to the Tail".
