Speaker 1: Abstract
Speaker 1: augment is a text processing system marketed by timeshare for a multi user, network environment. In augment's frontend is a User Interface System that facilitates flexible evolution of command languages and provides optional command recognition features. Exceptionally fast and flexible control of interactive operations is enabled by concurrent action of mouse and optional one handed chord keyset. Files are hierarchically structured, and textual address expressions can flexibly specify any text entity in any file. The screen may be divided into arbitrary, rectangular windows, allowing cross file editing between windows. Many options exist for controlling the "view" of a file's text in a window, for example: level clipping, paragraph truncation, and content filtering. Structural study and modification of on line documents are especially facilitated. A Journal system and "Shared Screen Teleconferencing" support collaboration among authors and their colleagues. Graphic illustrations may be embedded in the same file with text.
Speaker 1: Introduction
Speaker 1: augment was designed for augmenting human intellectual capabilities. It was targeted particularly toward the core work of professionals engaged in "tough knowledge work"    for example, planning, analyzing, and designing in complex problem domains. And special attention was paid to augmenting group collaboration among workers pursuing common goals.
Speaker 1: Authorship has received a great deal of attention in augment's evolution, as one of the central human activities to be augmented. An important set of provisions within augment    in its architecture, design principles, and specific features    is directly aimed toward bringing high performance to the authorship activities of knowledge workers. For the purposes of this paper, we thus speak interchangeably of "knowledge worker" and "author."
Speaker 1: We recognize explicitly that highly skilled workers in any field, and knowledge work is no exception, are those with good command of their tools. Our basic design goal was to provide a set of tools that would not themselves limit the capabilities of the people using them. A system designed to encourage more skilled workers will always enable higher human performance than one designed to support less skilled workers.
Speaker 1: In this regard, our design goal was to provide as much capability as possible for each level of system usage skill, and a continuous evolution path between skill levels. We believe firmly that knowledge workers are motivated to grow in knowledge and skill and that provisions in system design should support this. As the rest of the paper reveals, this approach translates into a rich set of augment provisions, aimed at providing speed and flexibility for skilled workers in organizing and pursuing their core knowledge work    in which "authorship" is a primary activity.
Speaker 1: An explicit sub goal in augment's development was to "augment" the development, production and control of complex technical documentation    through the whole cycle of gathering information, planning, creating, collaborating, reviewing, editing, controlling versions, designing layout, and producing the final documents.
Speaker 1: This paper concentrates upon the development phase of this cycle. augment has well developed tools to support the later, production phase, but their discussion is not included here.
Speaker 1: Studying another's work provides a well recognized challenge, but one of the toughest jobs is to study one's own work during its development: to see what it really says about Issue X; to see if it does provide for Concept Y; to see if it is reasonably organized and structured    and to do these over a body of material before it is "polished", that is, before it is well structured, coherently worded, non redundant and consistently termed.
Speaker 1: Some Background
Speaker 1: History
Speaker 1: augment is an integrated system of knowledge worker tools that is marketed by Tymshare's Office Automation Division. The system was developed at S R I International over an extended period under the sponsorship of nasa, darpa, and radc. Commercial rights were transferred to timeshare in 1978 (where the system has since been renamed from N L S to augment) and its evolution continued. A short history of augment's development may be found in Ref 1, along with a summary of system characteristics and features. The general R&D philosophy and the design principles behind augment's development are laid out in Ref 2.
Speaker 1: The system evolved on time shared, mainframe computers, and in a packet switched network environment. In 1970 our computer was the second to be attached to the arpa net, and since 1978 we have also operated extensively in the Time net environment. We have benefited directly from both the time sharing and the network environments in matters that are important to the authorship process    especially in dealing with large documents and multi party documentation activities. In 1976 to 77 we conducted some applied studies for the Air Force, as reported in Ref 3 and Ref 4, which concentrated upon this latter application.
Speaker 1: Relevant Architectural Features
Speaker 1: Perhaps augment's most unique architectural feature is its User Interface System (U I S), a special software module, which handles the human/computer interfaces to all interactive programs. It takes care of all command language dialog and connection protocols, and provides a framework for building a coherent and integrated user environment while supporting flexible evolution on both sides: on the user's side, with evolution of command function and terminology; and on the technology side, with evolving hardware and software. (Design details are outlined in Ref 5; rationale and utilization in Ref 6.)
Speaker 1: The U I S provides a reach through service to non augment systems, and can optionally translate back and forth to a foreign program's command language. It also supports the shared screen, remote collaboration capability discussed below.
Speaker 1: augment's architecture provides for open ended expansion and flexible evolution of system functionality and worker command languages.
Speaker 1: It is assumed that for any class of knowledge workers, specialized application systems developed by other parties, perhaps running on other computers, will provide services worth integrating. The "author class" of worker should be no exception. Continuing evolution toward the "author workshop of the future" will certainly depend upon some such features in workshop architecture.
Speaker 1: It provides adaptation for different terminal characteristics, enabling application programers to work as though with a virtual terminal.
Speaker 1: File Characteristics
Speaker 1: augment employs explicitly structured files, with hierarchically organized nodes; each node can contain either or all of: up to 2,000 characters of text, a graphic structure, or other forms of useful data (for example, digitized speech). The worker has a definite model in mind for the structuring of any file that he works with; in composing and modifying it he can organize and modify structure using the same verbs as for working with text strings (for example Insert, Replace, moove, Copy, deeleet), with appropriate structural entity nouns (for example, Statement, Branch, Group, Plex). For any existing hierarchical structure, he has many flexible alternatives for addressing its entities, modifying its organization, jumping around within it, and viewing it in a most beneficial manner.
Speaker 1: (Note: augment workers generally use the term "statement" to refer to a file node, which is natural enough since the terminology became established before we added the graphic capability. Now an augment "statement" can contain either or both a text statement and a graphic diagram.)
Speaker 1: Controlling the Tools
Speaker 1: Many of augment's unique author support provisions address basic operations common to almost every task, things done over and over again. These operations, executed with speed and flexibility, provide for composing and modifying one's working material, and for studying what is there over a wide range of substantive levels    from a single text passage to a collection of end product draft documents and their associated set of working notes, reference material, and recorded message dialog (assuming all to be on line).
Speaker 1: In the early stages of our program at S R I, we did a great deal of detailed work on what we called the "control interface"    how users control the functional application of their tools. These details can be very important to "low level" interactions which are done hundreds of times during a working day. Some of these details are quite relevant to bringing high performance to the authorship process.
Speaker 1: augment commands are expressed with verbs, nouns, and appropriate qualifier words; every command word is designated by entering one or more characters. The U I S recognizes the command word from these characters according to the command recognition options designated in each individual's "profile file." Users seem to migrate fairly rapidly to "expert" recognition modes, where a minimum number of characters will elicit recognition of command words. The fully spelled out command words are presented in the Command Feedback Window as soon as they are recognized. The Backspace Key will cause backup, one command word at a time.
Speaker 1: Of the system requirements behind our choice of this noun verb command form, two are particularly relevant here: (1) The "vocabulary" of the functions of the tools, and of the entities they operate upon, must be as extensible as is a natural language; (2) Textual lists of commands must conveniently lend themselves to writing, documenting, and executing as "macro" commands.
Speaker 1: Screen selection is done with a mouse. If the command's noun is a single, defined text or structure entity, for example, a "word", then there is only one selection needed (for example, to pick any character in the designated word).
Speaker 1: Besides using a standard keyboard for character entry, an augment user may optionally use a five key, one hand, chord keyset. Remarkably little practice is required in order to enter alphabetic characters, one hand stroke per character. With less than five hours practice, a person can begin profitably working in a two handed, concurrent mode    operating the mouse with one hand and simultaneously entering command characters and short literal strings with the other hand.
Speaker 1: Here is an example of a low level action which reveals some basic characteristics of high performance execution. It is a very simple situation, but representative of what is met over and over and over again in doing hard knowledge work. The worker is composing or modifying something in one area of the screen, when his eye catches a one character typo in another area. For a skilled augment worker, the typo could be corrected in less time than it would take someone to point it out to him    with three quick strokes of the keyset hand during a casual flick of the mouse hand, and an absolute minimum of visual and mental attention taken from the other ongoing task.
Speaker 1: Fast, flexible, graceful, low effort    these are important to all high frequency, low level, knowledge work actions. This same kind of speed and flexibility are achieved by skilled augment workers in executing all of the other functional features described below. Description of mouse and keyset, and their concurrent employment, may be found in Ref 7.
Speaker 1: Addressing the Working Materials
Speaker 1: There is a consistent set of addressing features that a worker may use in any command to designate a particular structural node or some element of text or graphics attached to that node. It adds appreciably to the power and flexibility of the system commands to have a rich, universally applicable vocabulary for directly addressing particular entities within the working files. Below are some examples.
Speaker 1: Explicit Statement Addresses
Speaker 1: There are four "handles" by which a given statement may be directly addressed:
Speaker 1: Structural Statement Number. This designates the current "structural location" of the statement. It is assigned by the system, depending upon where the worker installs or moves a statement within an existing structure, or how that structure might have been re organized subsequently. It is usually expressed as an alternating sequence of number letter fields    for example "1", "1 a", "1 a 1", "1 a 2", and "1 b". At a worker's option, these same statement numbers could be shown as "1", "1.1", "1.1.1", "1.1.2", or "1.2", but this bulkier alternative is seldom chosen.
Speaker 1: Statement Identifier (or S I D). This is a unique integer, assigned in sequential order by the system as each statement is first inserted, and which stays with a statement no matter how much its content may be altered or where it may be moved in its file structure. To make it uniquely recognizable for what it is, a S I D is always displayed, printed, or designated with a prefixed "0"    for example, "012", "0417", et cetera. SIDs are particularly useful for referencing passages in a document while it is evolving.
Speaker 1: Worker Assigned Statement Name (or label). For any statement or part of the file structure, an author can designate as "name delimiters" a pair of characters that indicate to the system when the first word of a statement is to be treated as a name for that statement. For instance, if "(" and ")" are set by the author as name delimiters for a specified part of the file, any parenthesized first word in a statement would be recognized by the system as that statement's name.
Speaker 1: (Note: It is optional whether to have any of the above three identifiers displayed or printed with the statements' text.)
Speaker 1: A Direct Screen Selection. When a statement to be designated is displayed in a window, usually the best way to "address" it is to use the mouse to position the cursor anywhere on the statement and depress the mouse's "Select" key (indicated below by "<Select>"). This mode is generally used for text manipulation    selecting characters, words, numbers, visibles, invisibles, et cetera. (any of the text entities which have been made system recognizable).
Speaker 1: Markers
Speaker 1: As one "holds a place" in a book by leaving a temporary place marker in it, an author can place "markers" at arbitrary locations within an augment file. When placing a marker, he attaches it to a specific character in the text and gives it a name or label. Marker names are local to each file. Simple commands provide for displaying where one's markers are located and what their names are, for deleting or moving a marker, or for installing a new one.
Speaker 1: A marker name may be included in an address expression, to provide another way of designating an address. A marker name can designate not only a particular statement, but a specific character within that statement. For example, "Copy Word #x (to follow word) <Select>" would designate that a word located somewhere in the file and marked with an "x" is to be copied to follow the cursor selected word. There are many unique ways in which markers may be employed by an author who has integrated their artful use into her working methodology.
Speaker 1: As a comparative example of some of the foregoing addressing forms, consider a statement whose S I D is "069", whose statement number is "3 b 5", that has statement name delimiters designated for it as "null" and ":", that starts with the text "Capacity: For every ...", and that has a marker named "x" positioned on one of its characters. A command to moove this statement could optionally be expressed as:
Speaker 1: "moove Statement <Select> ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement 3 b 5 ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement 069 ...",
Speaker 1: "moove Statement Capacity ...", or
Speaker 1: "moove Statement #x ...".
Speaker 1: Relative Address Extensions
Speaker 1: A sequence of characters may be appended to the address of a given statement to specify an address of a position "relative" to that statement. A major class of these designations deals with relative structural location, such as: Up a level, Down a level, Successor at same level, Predecessor at same level, Head at this level, Tail at this level, and End statement at last and lowest position in this branch. A period (".") in the address string indicates that relative addressing is beginning, and each of these relative location designators is indicated with a directly mnemonic, one letter designation.
Speaker 1: For example, "moove Statement 0609 (to follow statement) 4 b.dt" would moove Statement 0609 to follow the tail statement of the substructure one level down from Statement 4 b    or, to conceptualize the associated address location pathway, "go to 4 b, then Down a level and to the Tail".
Speaker 1: Embedded Citation Links
Speaker 1: A special use of address expressions is within an explicit text entity that we call a "Citation Link" (or "Link" for short). Links are used as textual citations to some specific file item within the workshop domain. A link is delimited by parentheses or angle brackets and contains a valid address string whose path leads to the cited file entity. For example, "(0306)" or "(4 b.dt)" are valid links. Also, the reference items at the end of this paper are statements named "Ref 1", "Ref 2", et cetera., and as such can be cited with links "Ref 1", "Ref 2", et cetera. An augment reader may travel via such a link directly to the referenced bibliographic citation.
Speaker 1: A special feature in augment's link provisions is the use of "indirect link referencing". In path following terms, including ".l" in an address string stipulates, "scan forward from this point to the next link, and follow that link to its target." For example, to follow the path prescribed by link "(4 b.l)", one would "go to 4 b, then find the first link in that statement and follow the path that it specifies." This latter path in turn could prescribe use of another link, et cetera. There is no intrinsic limit to the number of these indirect links that may be employed in a given path    only a natural caution against such a path looping back upon itself.
Speaker 1: As an example, note that "Ref 1" is a link to the statement named "Ref 1", a bibliographic citation at the end of this paper. In that citation, there is a link to the original source document of the referenced publication, permanently stored in the augment Journal as Item 71279 (the Journal is described below). The point to be made here is that with the link "<Ref 1.l>", I can reference the original source document    and a Jump Link command would "take me there."
Speaker 1: Text and Content Addressing
Speaker 1: Other addressing options include scanning for a content match, and/or stepping backward and forward a given number of characters or words (or other text entities). For instance, the foregoing link could have involved a bit more smarts in designating which link to follow: for example, the path for '(4 b "*D" .l)' would be "to 4 b, scan for first occurrence of "*D", then follow the next link found in that statement."
Speaker 1: Other File Addressing
Speaker 1: By preceding an in file address string with a file address, and separating the two strings with a comma, one obtains a composite address designating a given entity within a given file. Extending this principle lets one prefix the file name with a directory name in which the file is to be found; and further, one can prefix this with a host computer name.
