Speaker 1: Abstract
Speaker 1: augment is a text processing system marketed by timeshare for a multi user, network environment. In augment's frontend is a User Interface System that facilitates flexible evolution of command languages and provides optional command recognition features. Exceptionally fast and flexible control of interactive operations is enabled by concurrent action of mouse and optional one handed chord keyset. Files are hierarchically structured, and textual address expressions can flexibly specify any text entity in any file. The screen may be divided into arbitrary, rectangular windows, allowing cross file editing between windows. Many options exist for controlling the "view" of a file's text in a window, for example: level clipping, paragraph truncation, and content filtering. Structural study and modification of on line documents are especially facilitated. A Journal system and "Shared Screen Teleconferencing" support collaboration among authors and their colleagues. Graphic illustrations may be embedded in the same file with text.
Speaker 1: Introduction
Speaker 1: augment was designed for augmenting human intellectual capabilities. It was targeted particularly toward the core work of professionals engaged in "tough knowledge work"    for example, planning, analyzing, and designing in complex problem domains. And special attention was paid to augmenting group collaboration among workers pursuing common goals.
Speaker 1: Authorship has received a great deal of attention in augment's evolution, as one of the central human activities to be augmented. An important set of provisions within augment    in its architecture, design principles, and specific features    is directly aimed toward bringing high performance to the authorship activities of knowledge workers. For the purposes of this paper, we thus speak interchangeably of "knowledge worker" and "author."
Speaker 1: We recognize explicitly that highly skilled workers in any field, and knowledge work is no exception, are those with good command of their tools. Our basic design goal was to provide a set of tools that would not themselves limit the capabilities of the people using them. A system designed to encourage more skilled workers will always enable higher human performance than one designed to support less skilled workers.
Speaker 1: In this regard, our design goal was to provide as much capability as possible for each level of system usage skill, and a continuous evolution path between skill levels. We believe firmly that knowledge workers are motivated to grow in knowledge and skill and that provisions in system design should support this. As the rest of the paper reveals, this approach translates into a rich set of augment provisions, aimed at providing speed and flexibility for skilled workers in organizing and pursuing their core knowledge work    in which "authorship" is a primary activity.
Speaker 1: An explicit sub goal in augment's development was to "augment" the development, production and control of complex technical documentation    through the whole cycle of gathering information, planning, creating, collaborating, reviewing, editing, controlling versions, designing layout, and producing the final documents.
Speaker 1: This paper concentrates upon the development phase of this cycle. augment has well developed tools to support the later, production phase, but their discussion is not included here.
Speaker 1: Studying another's work provides a well recognized challenge, but one of the toughest jobs is to study one's own work during its development: to see what it really says about Issue X; to see if it does provide for Concept Y; to see if it is reasonably organized and structured    and to do these over a body of material before it is "polished", that is, before it is well structured, coherently worded, non redundant and consistently termed.
