Speaker 1: Or, suppose he were working in another file in a different directory on Office 5 and wanted to reference items relative to that same far off statement with special ease: in some temporary place in that file he could install a statement named Ref for example containing the textual link, Program Documentation, Sequence Doc, Specifications. He could then cite the above reference with the link, 'Ref dot l Journal'. This path description is: go to the statement in this file named Ref, take the first link that you find there traveling across intervening directories and files and statements, and beginning in the statement on the other end of that link, scan forward to the string Journal.
Speaker 1: This is only a cursory treatment, but should illustrate well enough what is meant by "a rich and flexible addressing vocabulary." As with other high performance features in augment, a beginner is not forced to become involved in the larger vocabulary in order to do useful work with productivity on at least a par with some other, restricted vocabulary system. But an augment worker interested in higher performance can steadily pick up more of the optional vocabulary and skills in a smooth, upward compatible progression.
Speaker 1: Controlling the Views A user of a book, or of most on line text systems, is constrained to viewing the text as though he had a window through which he sees a fixed, formatted document. But as described below, our worker can view a section of text in many ways, depending upon his need of the moment.
Speaker 1: Multiple Windows For whatever total screen area is available to the worker, his general performance will be improved significantly if he can flexibly allocate that area into arbitrary sized windows whose contents can be independently controlled. augment has long provided this basic capability, along with the provision that material from any accessible file may be shown in any window, and also that screen select copying or moving can be done across the different windows.
