Speaker 1: For instance, consider a detailed commentary directed toward a preliminary design document recorded in a given Journal collection. The author writing the commentary could view the design document in one window and his developing commentary document in another. He can easily establish links in his commentary to cite any passage in the design document, for example, a statement, a term in the statement, or a diagram. Then this author would submit his commentary into the Journal, perhaps specifying a list of colleagues for distribution. Each listed user would automatically receive a mail item announcing this new Journal entry, giving subject, author, date, et cetera., and the all important link to the new Journal file containing the commentary. Any such recipient can subsequently study both the commentary and its cited planning document in a similar, multi window, link assisted manner.
Speaker 1: Furthermore, this second reader could develop and submit his own recorded commentary, which because of the citation power of augment links could be as short and to the point as: "Frankly, John, I think your comment in D D D,xxx,aa is a mistake! Didn't you notice the earlier assumption in D D D,xxx,bb? Maybe you should go back to Tom's earlier requirements document, especially at E E E,yy,cc. Here, D D D and E E E represent Journal names, xxx, yyy, and zee zee zee represent Journal item numbers, and aa, bb, and cc" represent addresses pointing to specific passages in those Journal files. In official parlance, retrieval is the finding out about the existence of a relevant piece of information, whereas access is the subsequent process of gaining possession of the information. For users of augment's Journal system, retrieval is immensely facilitated by the widespread use of citation links. When one can follow them as easily as can a practiced augment worker, these links provide extremely effective retrieval support. We have supplemented this with some simple, automatically generated catalog files, which made a rather nice balance. Access is provided by direct Jump on a reference link if the file is on line; if it isn't, augment asks the worker if she wants it retrieved, and a simple affirmative response automatically launches a request for the system operator to retrieve the file from its archive tape, after which the worker is notified of its availability via electronic mail.
